.\" Manpage for fullSimLight.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "fullSimLight man page"
.SH NAME
fullSimLight \- Geant4 simulation from the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS

fullSimLight [-g geometry-input]  [-m macro-file] [-f physics-list-name] [-P pythia-event-type] [-p] [-o] [h]  ...

fullSimLight [-c json-config-file]

.SH DESCRIPTION
fullSimLight is a command-line interface to the Geant4, the toolkit
for simulation of particle transport and interaction with matter used
in particle physics and medical physics.  fullSimLight takes geometry
data from a source specified on the command line. Event data is also
taken from a source specified on the command line or generated
internally using the Pythia event generator. Plugins for User Actions
and Sensitive Detectors can be used to interrupt processing, for
example in order to generate and record hits; by default no output is
generated.  fullSimLight is intended as a convenient way to develop,
study, and benchmark Geant4 simulation outside of the context of large
scale applications.

Default configuration files for fullSimLight are typically installed in
/usr/share/FullSimLight on linux systems. 

The fullSimLight application can be run from the command line, or alternately,
through the graphical user interface fsl (see fsl(1)). By default it runs 10
events, each consisting of a single electron of energy 10 Gev and produces no
output. 

For more information on writing custom plugins for fullSimLight, see the web
page
.IR geomodel.web.cern.ch \.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-c \ json-config-file
Configure the run of fullSimLight through options recorded in a json
configuration file.  These files are most easily produced through the
fsl utility (see fsl(1)), a graphical user front-end to fullSimLight. 

.TP
.BI \-g \ geometry-input
Specifies the geometry input.  The input may be a GeoModel plugin, an SQLite
file containing a GeoModel description of a geometry, or a GDML file containing
a GDML description of a geometry. 


.TP
.BI \-m \ macro-file
Override the Macro file used to steer Geant4 (typically installed in /usr/share/FullSimLight) with a custom macro file. 

.TP
.BI \-f \ physics-list-name 
Geant4 physics list name. Currently FTP_BERT is default. 

.TP
.BI \-P \ event-type
Use the pythia primary event generator to generate events of specified type,
which may be ttbar (top antitop production), higgs (higgs boson production), 
or minbias (minimum bias events), each arising from proton-proton collisions
at 13 TeV center-of-mass energy.

.TP
.BI \-o
Check for geometry overlaps

.TP
.BI \-p
Run in performance mode

.TP
.BI \-h
Prints a help message





.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmclash(1), gmstatistics(1), gmex(1), fsl(1) 


.IR "geant4.web.cern.ch"
is the web page for the Geant4 toolkit, the development of which is led
by CERN.

.IR "pythia.org"
is the web page for the pythia event generator

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch"
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite. 
.

.SH AUTHORS

.MT Marilena.Bandieramonte@\:cern\:.ch
Marilena Bandieramonte
.ME ,
.MT Raees.Ahmad.Khan@\:cern\:.ch
Raees Khan
.ME
and 
.MT boudreau@\:pitt\:.edu
Joe Boudreau
.ME .
