.\" Manpage for gmex.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "gmex man page"
.SH NAME
gmex \- The Geometry Explorer 
.SH SYNOPSIS
gmex [input-file-1] [input-file-2] ... [plugin-1] [plugin-2] ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
gmex, the geometry explorer, is an interactive 3D graphics program which
renders geometry from plugins (shared object libraries which produce and
publish geometry in GeoModel format) or GeoModel geometries stored in
SQLite files (see gmcat(1)). Multiple files, multiple plugins, or a mix
can be provided to gmcat on the command line. 

Gmex is controlled by buttons on the right hand side of the display.
The most important of these are those displaying a hand, an arrow, and
an eye. The "eye" button brings the scene into scope.  The arrow and hand
buttons toggle between interaction mode in which the mouse modifies
the camera position and angle, and selection mode in which the mouse
buttons select geometry. Geometry selection can trigger various actions,
depending on selected options.

Gmex can co-display the results of gmclash, the clash detection system
(see gmclash(1)). To enable, launch the "clash point" system from the
main menu. 



.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmclash(1), gmstatistics(1)

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch" 
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite
.
.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs, however gmex does rely on graphics acceleration
so the performance depends upon the windowing system, the GPU, the graphics
drivers, and their configuration.  Performance under the Wayland flavor
of window manager on linux systems is poor, and the X-windows manager is
preferred. Users with NVidia GPUs should use the nvidia-settings utility
(see nvidia-settings(1)). 
.SH AUTHORS
Primary authors are 
.MT boudreau@\:pitt\:.edu
Joe Boudreau
.ME ,
.MT Vakhtang.Tsulaia@\:cern\:.ch
Vakho Tsulaia
.ME , 
.MT riccardomariabianchi@\:pitt\:.edu
Riccardo Maria Bianchi, 
.ME
Thomas Kittelman, and
.MT edward.moyse@\:cern\:.ch
Edward Moyse
.ME . 
