.\" Manpage for gmstatistics
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "gmex man page"
.SH NAME
gmstatistics \- Print memory consumption and other information about GeoModel plugins 
.SH SYNOPSIS
gmstatistics [Plugin1] [Plugin2] ... -o outputFile  [-v] [-g Repository]
.SH DESCRIPTION
gmstatistics takes one or more  plugins which construct the GeoModel description and prints an informative message about resource usage.  The information available depends on the platform, since different platforms provide different system calls for resource monitoring. On linux, the program reports the total memory as well as the memory consumed exclusively by the geometry data (ie. the geomodel tree).  On the macintosh, a detailed report containing the number of allocated objects by class and the total memory footprint of the allocated objects is also printed.  With the -p option, a dump of the geometry tree is also printed.

gmstatistics only works with plugins, it does not accept input files in SQLite format. 

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-p 
Prints the geometry tree.



.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmex(1), sqlitebrowser(1), gmcat (1)

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch" 
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite
.

.SH BUGS
There are no known bugs.
.SH AUTHORS
Primary authors are 
.MT riccardomariabianchi@\:pitt\:.edu
Riccardo Maria Bianchi
.ME ,
.MT boudreau@\:pitt\:.edu
Joe Boudreau
.ME
and
.MT Vakhtang.Tsulaia@\:cern\:.ch
Vakho Tsulaia
.ME

