.\" Manpage for gmclash.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "gmclash man page"
.SH NAME
gmclash \- detect and report clashes in a geometry model
.SH SYNOPSIS

gmclash [-g geometry-input]  [-r root-volume-name] [-o output-file-name] [-t tolerance] [-n number=random-points] [-v] [-h]  ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
gmclash is a command-line utility for detecting and reporting overlaps (or
clashes) in a geometry model. The geometry may be provided
in the form of a GeoModel description in an SQLite file, a GDML file
description, or a GeoModel plugin with .so or .dylib extension. gmclash
reports several abnormal conditions:  Mother/Daughter clashes, Sister/Sister
clashes, Encapsulated sister clashes, or invalid solid.  The report is
summarized in a .json file; this file may be opened in the ClashPoint system
of the gmex Geometry Explorer (see gmex(1)) and co-displayed with the
geometry. 

gmclash uses the Geant4 toolkit. 

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-o \ output-file-name
Specify OutputFile.  Default: gmclash_report.json

.TP
.BI \-g \ geometry-input
Specifies the geometry input.  The input may be a GeoModel plugin, an SQLite
file containing a GeoModel description of a geometry, or a GDML file containing
a GDML description of a geometry. 

.TP
.BI \-r \ root-volume-name
Specify root volume name.  If not specified, all volumes are considered. 

.TP
.BI \-t \ tolerance
Set the threshold value for clash reporting. 

.TP
.BI \-n
Specify the number of random points per volume (default: 1000) 

.TP
.BI \-h
Prints a help message

.TP
.BI \-v
Enable verbose output 





.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmmasscalc(1), gmstatistics(1), gmex(1), fullSimLight(1), fsl(1), gmgeantino(1)


.IR "geant4.web.cern.ch"
is the web page for the Geant4 toolkit, the development of which is led
by CERN.

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch"
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite. 
.

.SH AUTHORS

.MT Marilena.Bandieramonte@\:cern\:.ch
Marilena Bandieramonte
.ME

