.\" Manpage for gmgeantino.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "gmgeantino man page"
.SH NAME
gmgeantino \- perform geantino scans on an input geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS

gmgeantino [-g geometry-input]  [-m macro-file] [-o output-root-file] [-e] [-h] 
.\" [-a] [-l] [-h]  not working yet, disabled in this version
.SH DESCRIPTION
gmgeantino is a command-line utility to perform geantino scans on an
input geometry.

A "geantino" is an imaginary particle that traverses a detector,
carrying out an inventory of material properties as it does so. The program
produces one and two dimensional output plots in root format which can
be examined using the root program (see root.cern.ch)

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-g \ geometry-input
Specifies the geometry input.  The input may be a GeoModel plugin, an SQLite
file containing a GeoModel description of a geometry, or a GDML file containing
a GDML description of a geometry. 

.TP
.BI \-m \ macro-file
Override the Macro file used to steer Geant4 (typically installed in /usr/share/FullSimLight) with a custom macro file. 


.TP
.BI \-o \ output-file
Set the name of the output files, in root format (see root.cern.ch). The default
output file name is geantinoMaps.root. 

.TP
.BI \-e
Use this flag to create eta-phi radiation-interaction length 1D profile histograms

.\" .TP
.\" .BI \-d
.\" Use this flag to create xy-rz   radiation-interaction length 2D profile histograms for 'detectors'

.\" .TP
.\" .BI \-a
.\" Use this flag to create xy-rz   radiation-interaction length 2D profile histograms for 'materials'

.\" .TP
.\" .BI \-l
.\" Use this flag to create xy-rz   radiation-interaction length 2D profile histograms for 'elements'

.TP
.BI \-h
Prints a help message





.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmclash(1), gmstatistics(1), gmmasscalc(1), gmex(1), fsl(1) 


.IR "geant4.web.cern.ch"
is the web page for the Geant4 toolkit, the development of which is led
by CERN.

.IR "root.cern.ch"
is the web page for the root project

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch"
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite. 
.

.\" .SH BUGS
.\" The -a, -l, and -d flags are not currently working and are under repair. 

.SH AUTHORS

.MT Marilena.Bandieramonte@\:cern\:.ch
Marilena Bandieramonte
.ME ,
.MT Raees.Ahmad.Khan@\:cern\:.ch
Raees Khan
.ME
and 
.MT boudreau@\:pitt\:.edu
Joe Boudreau
.ME .
