.\" Manpage for gmmasscalc.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "gmmasscalc man page"
.SH NAME
gmmasscalc \- detect and report clashes in a geometry model
.SH SYNOPSIS

gmmasscalc [-g geometry-input]  [-p prefix-logical-volume] [-o output-file-name] [-m material-of-interest] [-v] [-h]  ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
gmmasscalc is a command-line utility for performing a mass inventory of
a geometry model. The geometry may be provided in the form of a GeoModel description in an SQLite file, a GDML file description, or a GeoModel plugin with .so or .dylib extension. gmmasscalc reports the total inclusive mass, the total inclusive mass, and the apparent weight in air of the geometry. A summary in the form of a .json file is also saved.   

gmmasscalc uses the Geant4 toolkit. 

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-o \ output-file-name
Specify the output file.  Default: gmmasscalc_report.json

.TP
.BI \-g \ geometry-input
Specify the geometry input.  The input may be a GeoModel plugin, an SQLite
file containing a GeoModel description of a geometry, or a GDML file containing
a GDML description of a geometry. 

.TP
.BI \-p \ prefix-logical-volume
Specify root volume name.  If not specified, all volumes are considered. 

.TP
.BI \-m \ material-of-interest
Restrict the inventory to volumes of specific material composition. 

.TP
.BI \-h
Prints a help message

.TP
.BI \-v
Enable verbose output 





.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmclash(1), gmstatistics(1), gmex(1), fullSimLight(1), fsl(1), gmmasscalc(1), gmgeantino(1) 


.IR "geant4.web.cern.ch"
is the web page for the Geant4 toolkit, the development of which is led
by CERN.

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch"
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite. 
.

.SH AUTHORS

.MT Marilena.Bandieramonte@\:cern\:.ch
Marilena Bandieramonte
.ME

