.\" Manpage for fsl.
.\" Contact geomodel-core-team@cern.ch to correct errors or typos.
.TH man 1 "01 Nov 2024" "6.5" "fsl man page"
.SH NAME
fsl \- user interface for fullSimLight Geant4 simulation.
.SH SYNOPSIS

fsl [-c JsonConfigFile]

.SH DESCRIPTION
fsl is a graphical user front-end to fullSimLight. fsl/fullSimLight 
runs Geant4 simulation using input files containing 1) event data,
2) geometry data, and 3) configuration data.

Using the fsl application, one can configure and launch the simulation
interactively through a series of menus. The menus allow to select
the event type and input source, the geometry input, the magnetic
field, and any plugins.  A number of example plugins appear in the
menus.  For more information on writing custom plugins, see the web
page
.IR geomodel.web.cern.ch \.

Default configuration files for fsl are typically installed in
/usr/share/fsl on linux systems. 

Users can either run fullSimLight simulation from within fsl or simply
configure the simulation, in which case the configuration may be saved
to a json file.  The json file may read back into fsl
for further editing (see the -c option below) or passed to fullSimLight
on the command line.

From the fsl main window, users may run the gmex geometry explorer,
and/or the gmclash clash detection utility, in addition to fullSimLight.  

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BI \-c \ JsonConfigFile
Open a fullSimLight configuration file for further interactive configuration.

.\" ====================================================================
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.\" ====================================================================
.
gmcat(1), gmclash(1), gmstatistics(1), gmex(1), fullSimLight(1) 


.IR "geant4.web.cern.ch"
is the web page for the Geant4 toolkit, the development of which is led
by CERN.

.IR "pythia.org"
is the web page for the pythia event generator

.IR "geomodel.web.cern.ch"
is the location of the main documentation for the GeoModel Tools Suite. 
.

.SH AUTHORS
.MT Marilena.Bandieramonte@\:cern\:.ch
Marilena Bandieramonte
.ME ,
.MT Raees.Ahmad.Khan@\:cern\:.ch
Raees Khan
.ME
and
.MT boudreau@\:pitt\:.edu
Joe Boudreau
.ME .
